Your use of the content either ordered by you from this site or consumed on
this site or other sites is at your sole risk.
Content is for instructional purposes only. All athletic endeavors, martial arts and self defense techniques carry inherent risk.
Company is not liable or responsible for any injury to you, any other person or any property.
Further, you agree to release the Company from any and all claims and liability related to your use of any content.
Okay, guys. So now let's work the cross collar choke from the mount.
So it's
there's a lot of small details that's very important for you to follow because,
you know, without them, you attack will fall apart and you will fail.
It's, you know, focus on the details and every details are very, very important.
Small things together, they make the attack very efficient.
It's, you know, if you miss a few, it's you won't hold your attack, you will collapse.
So it's, you know, pay attention, like,
putting the hand deep is, you know, how deep do you go, like, spend some time, how you, you know, you have to react when you put your hand deep in the collar because it weakens your position.
You cannot be leaning forward too much because when he bridges, he gets you out.
Because the cross collar choke from the mount is probably the most challenging attack to do because your hands are busy, you cannot use your hands on the floor to stop the person escaping.
That's why it's so difficult to master the cross collar choke in the mount, if you're attacking the arm lock, the person is bridging, he's trying to escape, I'm sitting up, my arms are free, I can use the floor to stop if I have to.
In the cross collar choke in the mount, if I have to use my hands on the floor to stop, I automatically need to stop my attack, and he kind of gains some more space.
So, it's very important is to establish a good control first, then you go for the attack.
It's, you feel, you feel controlling the mount is not secure, if you don't feel confidence, you will fail, that's the biggest challenge in the cross collar choke to finish.
Is securing the mount as you're trying to attack without having to use your hands on the floor.
So, first, we did a video before when the person is replacing God, how to prevent that.
So, we, we came through that.
Now, how to stop him bridging, that's very important, especially now that I'm going to start going for the neck.
We already know that the first thing the person needs to bridge is to get control of my arm, then he will bridge over and then he gets me out.
So, for the, for the bridge, he needs to
He needs to grab my arm first, then he goes, when he grabs my arm, is exactly the same, when I reach the collar, I'm giving him the arm.
By grabbing the collar, I'm giving him the arm for him now he can try to bridge, but I still need to maintain the mount and attack.
Go for the finish.
So, that means his arm is locked, I cannot allow myself for when he bridges,
for me to do that to stop the mount, that cannot happen.
So, how do I maintain the mount holding his column?
So, how to get there?
So, on the other videos we did, we already know that as we reach in the high mount, we secure the elbows and we lean back, right?
It's, if my head is past 90 degrees, and if you try to bridge, start by your gun, it's
See, I'm just go higher, very rarely he's going to get me to the floor.
I push my head forward, if he bridges now, I'm falling, right?
So, one thing that I cannot do is stay halfway, here he bridges, I need my hand.
I can only stay on this position as long as my arms are free because I already know that I don't need to stop that, stop the fall.
If I lean back, I don't, or I go all the way down.
Now he tried to bridge it, not right down.
See, he cannot move me because I'm not sitting on him anymore.
My feet, never leave his body, remember that, and my head on the floor, it works as a hand.
So, to secure the mount, either I'm going to be very far back, or I'm going to be completely over him.
So, now reach in the column, so there's different ways that you can go with the first hand.
One thing for you to, to be aware, most of the times that I get my hand into his column is when I see a gap there.
If I see a gap, the hand goes in, very rarely the person is this time.
He can be there, but then he's not trying to escape because he's working about defense, so I don't have to worry too much about him escaping.
And then I can focus and get the arm in.
But the moment that he bridges, then he goes away, on the hand on the floor, boom.
The hand goes in quick before he expects.
Let's suppose he's keeping very tight, not giving me anything.
I always like to go under his arm, so I push him because it doesn't matter how tight he, he gets.
It's, you know, you can always work is a, just a little.
The hand goes in, all I need to do is lift the arm up a little bit.
So I, I take the pressure off and I put the hand in.
So it doesn't matter how tight he gets, look, he can defend, my arm goes in.
So I push, I go through here.
If I try, if I try to go through the hand, this is very tight, see, there's already a gap there.
So I don't go towards the hand.
I just want my arm through, doesn't matter if he's still defending, if I cannot grab the call.
So, the first stage is my hand goes through.
Now I'm in dangerous for the bridge.
Straight away my body comes this side, see, I'm already leaning in where my arm is free, because he can bridge this way and I can stop.
If he bridges that way, it's harder, and if he really goes, he gives me the arm.
Because he will turn, he will not take me.
Now his arm is exposed.
So, when I lean this way, he has to be very careful going that way, because he will expose his arm.
So let's say the, now he's defending, I like to grab inside the wrist.
I pull, and then I place my hand.
Then I grab, I adjust, pull, get the hand tight.
Now I like to sit slightly back.
I don't like to put the cross collar to stay in a, in a very high mount, see my forearm can barely touch his chest.
So, I need to be lower for me to be able to do that.
I press my forearm against his body, the moment that my hand is there, my elbow will aim.
So, first, my wrist will straight.
So, when I stretch my wrist and I press my elbow down, I'm already starting to put pressure into his neck, not enough to tap, of course, it's just one hand, but he's uncomfortable.
I'm pressing the side of his neck already, he's not in a comfortable position, so that means he will struggle more to escape.
Push it down for sure.
So, the moment that I grab, remember, this arm is free, before I go for the other side.
I want this grip as deep as I can.
The first hand is very important that I go really deep.
Because this one is free, so I have two hands to adjust one grip.
After I have that grip, now I have one hand to adjust one grip, so this grip will never be as tight as this.
So, the first grip is as tight as I can, because he will go deeper.
Now, the second one does not need to go so deep, if this is not so deep, that one has to go super deep, otherwise the, the choke will be weak.
So, but it's harder, the second hand will never be as deep as the first ever.
Because it's not possible, because I, I don't have any help with the second grip, the first one I have two hands.
So, this has to be deeper, has to, the other hand is helping, take your time, lean that way, look, he's defending, pull, slide, slide in.
The moment that I adjust my grip, elbow down, straight away, hand above his head.
Because again, it's about control, if you try to bridge now.
He cannot bridge, see, that hand stops, worst case scenario, my head goes on the floor, now he goes up.
Here, look, bridge, even with no hands, push it up for sure, not like that.
Look, I don't need hands to block the mount.
So, that mean my arms are free to choke him.
The moment that I get the first hand in, elbow down, hand on the floor.
Because if you try to bridge, I'm pushing myself back, look, no chance.
Now, when I feel secure, I'm going to replace my hand by my elbow.
See, my elbow's, this is still helping me, if you try to bridge, my forehead can touch the floor.
Now, the moment that I get to this position, he knows
I'm very close to finish, he will do everything he can to defend the second grip.
So, the, the head goes close to the, the shoulder, the shoulder comes up, both hands goes in.
He will close that gap to give me nothing.
So, ideally he go both hands in.
And the head and the shoulder, everything tight.
Because now, look, it's very difficult to get through both hands, it's not easy.
That's why I find four fingers in, the harder grip to get.
So, I, it's hard to go this way.
So, I go on the elbow, I go behind, look, thumb behind the ear.
It's very difficult for him to defend that, even if he close everything.
Look, I go behind the ear, I loosen up the ghee first.
Loosen up, get him loose, doesn't matter if he bridges, if he bridges, I'm defending.
I can stay here, I'm comfortable.
Now I'm going to solid grip, you're going to place his palm into his face to defend the grip.
Now I'm going to keep my arm tight into his head and I'm going to turn.
And finish.
When he places the hand, they all do, they do this to defend.
So, the first hand I in, I go into his call.
I'm going to let go just for you guys to see, what you don't want is to rotate over.
Because now he blocks, I'm going to get my wrist bone.
I need to get just the top of his finger.
So, I'm going to place look, on the top, and now I slide down to remove it.
Just, you know, you do scratch his face but without hurting your opponent.
The idea is not to, you know, to, to scratch his whole face that you're not supposed to hurt anyone.
But you need to keep it tight enough so you bend his fingers and you get it through.
Just enough to get through, there so you place your wrist, they'll be on the side.
Above, go right on top of the fingers and just slide in, and then you get it through, very important.
Everyone will do this to defend, that's why you go behind, look, you go behind his defense.
So, the first hands are in, remember, my elbow is being squeezed against his chest.
He's already feel uncomfortable on this position, elbow, adjust, see his hand, slide look, and then drop down straight away.
```